# Game features

Project 4: **Dino Game!** built by Zhang Chi Xuan and Huang Kuan.

## Game Framework Principle

**Dino Game!** will run on a single-threaded tick-update mechanism.

## About game characters

### Type 1: Dino

#### 1 Smooth Dino control

Jump: When Dino jumps, its speed will change with the effect of gravity, simulating vertical upward throwing movement.
Crouch: Dino can run while standing or crouching, and its hitbox will change with the change of pose.
Accelerated falling: Press and hold the crouch button after jumping, Dino's falling speed will be significantly accelerated to avoid the inability to cross multiple consecutive obstacles.

#### 2 Vivid Dino animation

Walking animation: Dino's legs will keep stepping, and will stop stepping in the air when it jumps.
Death animation: Dino's eye will show the "X" figure after colliding with the obstacles, and imitate Mario's death animation, keep the current pose and make vertical upward throwing movement.

### Type 2: Obstacles

#### 1 Cactus

There are two types of cacti, one tall and one short, with different hitbox sizes, and Dino has different difficulties in crossing them.

#### 2 Pterosaur

Pterosaurs have three altitudes, high, medium and low, but they share the same hitbox size, and have a constant flapping wings animation.
The lowest pterosaur can be easily jumped over by Dino, the middle height pterosaur can let Dino easily crouch through or to leap over with difficulty, while the highest pterosaur will block Dino from jumping over it, but Dino can directly stand under it and run through, which can examine the player's responsiveness.

### Type 3: The ground

The ground is divided into two parts: the flat horizon and the decorative stones. Decorative stones will be generated in many different appearances and will move backwards at the same speed as the obstacles, creating the feeling of Dino running forward.

## About game mechanics

### 1 Obstacle speed control system

The speed of the obstacles will increase through the score and an obvious hint will show on the game interface.

### 2 Score calculation system

The score will be increased with time and displayed in the upper right corner of the game interface in real time. In order to prevent the score from increasing too fast, the score will only increase by 1 after each multiple game tick.

### 3 Score settlement system

At the end of the game, the score and the highest score will be displayed. If the highest score record is broken, the player will be celebrated with a conspicuous sentence with rolling RGB colors.

### 4 Invincible mode

Pressing the left button multiple times on the last page of the Help screen will cause Dino to enter the invincible mode. After entering the game, Dino will be protected by the RGB shield and ignore all obstacles. There will be an RGB color changing "INVINCIBLE" prompt in the upper left corner of the game interface. Invincible mode can be turned off by pressing and holding the left and right buttons simultaneously in the game, allowing Dino to commit suicide. Invincible mode will be automatically turned off after a game, or you can manually turn it off by re-entering the Help screen before the game starts.

### 5 Obstacle generation

Obstacles are generated according to a random number generator based on the "linear congruence method", and the interval and the type of obstacles are determined by the random number generated by the generator. In addition, the maximum number of obstacles that can appear in the screen at the same time is set to 5.

### 6 Game pause

After pressing BOOT0, the game will be paused, the movement of all targets will be stopped, and a clear flashing word "GAME PAUSED" will appear in the center of the screen. Press and hold the BOOT0 key to wait for the word to disappear and then release, the game will be counted down to let players get ready, and then the game will continue to run.

### 7 Restarting

After the game is over, press the left button to return to the main menu and you can play the game again. Through this method, the highest score record can be stored.

## Game details

### 1 RGB gradient function

When using a specific variable name as the color value, it will change gradually after each tick to achieve a cool rolling RGB light effect.
The RGB gradient function realizes the RGB color changing main menu, the colorful score settlement page and the RGB shield.

### 2 Key release waiting function

The key release waiting function can prevent the system from executing multiple operations continuously when the key is pressed.


### 3 Standby interface animation

When the game is started for the first time by pressing Reset, the game will first remain in standby mode and play a full-screen animation with RGB color rolling.

### 4 Main menu animation

The game title is displayed in the main menu, and its color changes continuously.
On the right side of the main menu, Dino keeps stepping and will turn his head back and forth.
The Play and Help buttons in the main menu will be highlighted when pressed and dimmed when released.

### 5 Transition animation

When entering the main menu, entering the Help screen, exiting the Help screen and the game ends, a transition animation will be played that scans from the center of the screen to the sides. The animation uses non-linear design and is uniform deceleration movement, which can give players a comfortable feeling.

### 6 Page turning animation

In the score screen when breaking the highest score and the help screen, the page flip animation will be played when the player turns the page. The page flip animation is different from the transition animation, which is a single scanning line from right to left.

### 7 Help interface

Help interface can be accessed from the main menu, detailing the game rules and control methods.
In the last page of the Help interface, players can enter the invincible mode by pressing the left button multiple times.

### 8 Score mark

The score is represented by a self-drawn pentagram bitmap, instead of the traditional word "SCORE".

